Again, I'd like to say good afternoon and welcome everyone. Thank you very much. Again, we continue
to go on the teaching of the greatest teachers of the Buddha Satyamali, but regularly taught
by Gavri Dudjo Rinpoche. And we are going to continue on this teaching. And now on that,
at the beginning, line 6, explaining how the importance of contracting to the Three Jewels
by trusting and asking if you do that, then the result will be the unpalleable. Those are
the statements or the instructions that His Holiness Dudjo Rinpoche made, or asked that.
So everyone still has these teachings on the Three Jewels. Three Jewels of that. And today,
I'm going to conclude with that. Yesterday, I mentioned generally kind of Three Jewels
of the General Buddhism of the Buddha Dhammasanga. And particularly also in Vedayana teaching,
there's slightly different terminologies, such as Guru, Yedam, or the deities and the
Dakini's. And then of course, I mentioned about the chairs, wind, and the essence, the element
of the body. And then I also mentioned the essence of the nature, the essence of the
emptiness and nature of the mind, essence of the clarity and nature of the mind, and the
essence of the display of the nature of the mind. I mentioned those are also like Three Jewels or
the Three Gaias or the Three Roots and all that. Today, I'd just like to highlight who is,
of course, the Buddha Dhammasanga we know, who is, who are the Guru. What is a Guru? Guru.
So everything of that way. And Guru is generally Sanskrit Guru, and the Tibetan is translated as
lama, in English, we translate or people translate as teachers. So that kids who are the teachers,
and the teachers are Buddha Shakyamuni. And Guru Pemmasambhava are the teachers.
Particularly when we are connected to the very other teaching, open, in the teaching, open,
said that see Guru Pemmasambhava as our teachers, even they have, we have many different
connections
of the teachers in this lifetime, but we can bring all those teachers as within the
part of the Guru Pemmasambhava. So we do it. And that means Buddha Shakyamuni and all the teachers
are become as Guru Pemmasambhava. And Guru Pemmasambhava, one who brought the Redi Vaidyana
teaching to Tibet, or he was the instrumental to bring the Vaidyana teaching, we are practicing
Vaidyana teachings. Teaching, so therefore, and Buddha Shakyamuni always emphasized that
teacher is important. Teachers are so important. And for that reason, the Buddha's teaching,
you know what I said, teachers are the Buddha, teachers are the Dharma, teachers are the Sangha,
and teachers are all in body mode of the pilates. But this sign that teaches all we see as Guru Pem
masambhava.
So Guru Pemmasambhava is leading example of the teachers. Guru Pemmasambhava is also according,
generally there is two teachers, we open, I said, when you say, specifically when he's talking,
or specifically we go with more kind of practical levels, there's two senses.
Devotion and seeing the teacher as Buddhas, or teachers are really Buddhas. In that way,
Guru Pemmasambhava is really Buddha, absolutely Buddha. And as well as then devotional level,
Guru Pemmasambhava is Buddha. So both devotional level and reality level, Guru Pemmasambhava is
Buddha. And therefore, all teachers are within the umbrella of the Guru Pemmasambhava. Those are
all
suggested in the teachings, in the new millenniums. So I'm just highlighting that. Then, in that
way,
who are the Yidams. The Yidams, generally the Yidam is very old and from Sanskrit is used
with Devak, Guru Devak. But Devak is translated, translated in two different ways. One is called
and the other is Yidam. Yidam, in this case, Yidam means like mind. Dham means supreme,
supreme or holy. So holy to the heart or supreme to the heart. So that means half condition of the
practices. That means whose heart connection practice. For example, like who is the Yidams,
now I will say, for example, Yidam can be like Vaidya Kalyas, Vaidya Satvas,
Ojaya Giravas, Yaman Thakas. This time it depends. All the Amitamas, Rena Sabavas, all that can be,
they are all Yidams. Yidams. And they are the supreme or the holy or the noble of the heart.
Whose supreme or the noble of the heart? For example, Gurbel Masambhava is totally
enlightening, as we just mentioned to you. Any of you all know that. However, on a relative level,
Gurbel Masambhava practices on the Vaidya Kalya. So it's become his personal duty,
the Vaidya Kalya become. It's like supreme heart to the Gurbel Masambhava anyway. So therefore,
when he came to Tibet, also he gave many teachings on the Vaidya Kalyas and as well as also
at Herukas, so forth. So that's the really, really meaning of the Yidam. Personal connection,
something that we are truly connected, is a personal commitment into the heart center.
And so that is Yidams really. But also, this Vaidya Sattva, Vaidya Kalya can be also guru too.
As I said yesterday, guru, Yidam can be guru, Yidam can be yidam, and Yidam can be nakinis too.
So it's not something that is kind of completely strike the rules and these things. So that way,
so that is really kind of like identifications of Yidams. And then talk about the nakinis.
Who are the nakinis? Dakinis generally, again in Sanskrit word, it is translated into Tibet
as palm, row, ma. Palm, row, ma, three words. And what that means? Palm is space,
row means goal, goal, goal. And ma means goal, goal. So ma is also indicative of the fema,
fema. So the space of goal, femas. Of space of goal, femas. Yeah, I think that's it.
But then they translate it also, sky dancers or sky goals, walker of the skies.
But what that actually really means, that is again in the nimma teaching,
or in the teaching, clearly measured on the space of the loving kindness, the compassion,
or space of the wisdom and the compassion, freely walking, freely travels. Then that's what the
dakinis. Dakinis are totally enlightened beings of the pure bullets. So they are
completely actualized of the realization of great compassion and the wisdom.
All wisdom of great emptiness and the compassion of the skillful beings completely combined has
really enlightened the ultimate state. Therefore, their embodiment of compassion and wisdom,
and for that reason, they are the master of these two matters, skillful beings and wisdom,
and therefore, they are known as dakinis. Dakinis. So who are the examples of dakinis,
such as wisdom, dakini, ishin, choyams, taras, Veda yoginis, Veda varahis, Veda yoginis,
or all the female bullets. Those are basically known as dakinis. And again, dakini can be yetom,
dakini can be lama, or dakini can be guru, dakini can be yetom, or the deity, dakini can be as
dakinis to you. So that way, I mean, it's not something completely like the kind of structurally
and divided in identifications, but it's all in body. Body is everything. The reality, guru, deva,
dakini, onguru, yetom, dakinis, all are enlightened beings, all the bullets. And that is what it
really
is. And so that is really the kind of that has been reactivating, re-clarifications,
or re-identifications of the guru, deva, dakini, or the three roots. Now, again, I say one more
thing about the guru, Buddha, dharmasants. And Buddha is a simple way to know, Buddha is the
one who gives the teachings. So that is Buddha Shakyamali in this world. And then what is Gurubham
masan?
Gurubhammasan is also known as the Buddha of the Vaidyana teachings. And Buddha Shakyamali,
when he came in this world, 5600 years ago, and when he gave the teaching, on the common level,
he gave the teachings on the basic Buddhist school, and the sutramahayanas, that basic Buddhist
schools. Really, that is very popular. Then, when Buddha Shakyamali gave the Vaidyana teachings,
that depends with many of the great masters interpreting. But Buddha Ghee, well, he was in
India in that 81 years that he said, according to the common conceptual level, he said about 81
years
in India and gave the teaching. During that time, he gave the teachings of the Vaidyana teachings.
Where he gave that teachings, not in the common world of the duality, he gave those teachings
on the celestial world or, if you will use, the Akanishad, or women. Those different areas,
in the Duhida heavens, pick up the Malaya mountain, or Malayas, or Beno of the Oceans,
all the different areas. But according to the Vaidyana teachings, it's not just he gave the
teachings as we used to look at India exactly that time. But he gave that teachings in another
level, another dimensional level, that he gave the Vaidyana teachings. Well, he was in India
two thousand six hundred years ago. He gave the teachings. So then, right before Buddha Shakyamali
entered Mahapari Narvanas, and some students asked to Buddha Shakyamali, all great teachers,
now you're entering in Mahapari Narvanas, you're leaving this wall. But you give
causal teachings so many times, but you did not explain or talk as resortyana teaching.
That means that resort, we're talking about resort or cause, what you are both are using
as an object or goal is to get enlightenment, Buddhahood. Buddhahood, very quickly, fast,
positive. So that is like causal yana means one is being caused to bring enlightenment as
causing a result, result as enlightenment, resort yana. The result is so fast, within the single
lifetime, if you have the capability and opportunity and practice the accordion and
struggle, you can get a result within a short period of time. Therefore, it is the name
of resort yanas, getting quickly enlightenment. So these students asked great master, you give
variety teachings on the causal yanas, but you did not explain openly about the resort yanas.
And Buddha said, I give the teaching of the causal yana, those who are ready to receive
their teaching or who are connected, but resort yana will come soon after my Mahabharic Naranas.
That is what Buddha said. As Buddha said, and then all the Vedayana teachings are starting
appearing 27 years after or 28 years after Buddha checked him on his Mahabharic Narana.
And then even before that, Gurbel Masamma was appeared right in the middle of the lotus.
Miraculously, as a born, at eight years after Buddha checked him on his Mahabharic Narana,
he appeared. And as Buddha predicted, he will come back as Gurbel Masamma. And then he the one
who also really more actively reversed the Vedayana teaching that which already was a
guild on the celestial world and a world that may well go to this world and particularly in Tibet.
Tibet. So therefore, Gurbel Masamma is also considered as master of the Vedayana teaching,
Vedayana teaching. So therefore, these two Buddhas are or the Buddha kept many,
one who taught the teaching and that is the Buddha. And then the teachings already we make
and all that and the teachings are all those variety of teachings. Sartre teaching and/or
kasayana teaching and Vedayana teaching, all those are the teachings. Now, so that means
Buddha Dharma. And what is the Sangha now, actually? And as he said, yes, two days ago,
Sangha means they're devoted to the virtues. Virtues. But also same time, what Sangha does,
what Sangha has realizations. Sangha has a realization of seeing true nature according
there. I mean, whatever the degree they are, seeing some true naturals and also the same time,
removed some really of the obscurations, habit patterns or a process of the child movement,
obscurations and habit patterns. Those are simple to tell of the meaning of the Sangha.
But what is there? Another beside role of the Sangha member is known as older of the teachings.
One who hold the teachings. Buddha gave the teaching. So Buddha is the one who gave the teaching.
Then teaching is here. But now teaching is here. But who hold the teaching?
Who maintain the teaching? This is Sangha members. Buddha came 2600 years ago.
Gurba Masambha came to Tibet in 8 centuries. And in between there is so many great Masambhas came.
But who really hold the teachings from the time the Buddha entered Mahaprabhu Nirmala until now?
It's all the Sangha members. Many people, many of the individual things, holders of teaching
is kind of only selected group or few groups, few kind of teachers, particularly kind of Sanjay,
we think that. It's true. They are the holder of the teachings. But not just the thing or the few
teachers. Everyone, the Sangha member, who is a very practicing Dharma, who are devoted to them,
to the rituals, means who are devoted to the teaching. They are the holder of the Sangha members.
So that means we all have all have the holder of the teachings. We all have the responsibilities
of the two upheld teachings. It is authenticness and godliness. And godliness. As it is preserved
like that way. What as exotic, authentic, praise, powerful, blessed folk, they kept the Sangha
members
from the time Buddha gave the teaching until now. In which manner they uphold, then both
scripture and the realization levels. They hold healing of that. Both ways, two ways.
So that means a similar way. Sangha held up the teachings through the intellectual ways
and the same time through the practice. And the practice and the intellectuals are combined
together. Starting with the scripture with understanding, realization. I held together
to their goal of heart and maintained with love, joy, respect. That's what they practice and that's
what they share to the others. That is continuing. So light of the teaching, light of Dharma,
the Buddha light up there. The light is continually carried by all the Sangha members.
Whether big ways, whether small ways, whether medium ways. But everyone held up that light.
This is not just the whole helping of the light, but they illuminated themselves according their
capabilities. And they also passed their light to the others and smiled and carried on the others.
So that is really known as the Buddha meaning of the Sangha members. So therefore,
we all are holder of the teachings. Teachings, Buddha, that we therefore, we are all part of the
three jewels. Three jewels, Buddha, Dharma, Sangha. And therefore, keeping up, it is identity,
quality,
every way, as much as we can do with joy, with devotion, with inspirations, with prayers,
keep up identity. And that is known as practicing Dharma, practicing the identity of the spiritual
lineage and helping up the life of love and compassion, kindness to all living beings
without any discriminations. And that is the really beautiful, beautiful principles.
And that is what it is. So that is really about the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, about three jewels,
what we've been talking about. Now we talk about what his own message is. Trust us. Trust us.
This is generally what is in the teaching, you say, what is the cause of taking refuge.
In great master, Bhumala Mathara said in the teaching, his first teaching that he gave in
Tibet, Bhumala Mathara, as you all know, I think you, yeah, you all know, he was one of the great
masters in the Buddhist Histories. He was the one of the first among three of them. He is the
first great teacher of the Dzogki teacher, great Dzogki teacher who came to Tibet, who gave the
teaching, Dzogki teaching in Tibet, along with all the other teachings. So in the Tibetan Buddhist
Histories, the New Masters Histories said there's two great masters who wore the Dzogki teaching
in Tibet. First time in the eighth century, it was Guru Pima Sambabar, Bhumala Mathara,
and the great Dzogki teacher, the Dzogki teacher in Tibet. From that
all these Dzogki teachings, what we have now, came transmitted from them. Of course, all literally
taught by the Buddha, Chaturbuni in the form of Buddha Sambabar, but that's in Tibet. These are
three great masters who ignited these teachings. So this, of course, when he came to the great
master,
Bhumala Mathara, when he came first time in Tibet in the eighth century by invitation of
King Chaso Depli, and somehow King Chaso Depli had a little suspicious of the Bhumala Mathara's
effectiveness of his calling of the teacher, be as teacher, as Buddhist teacher, because he got
cylinders or some news, mixed news that he might be as non-Buddhist teacher, non-Buddhist teacher.
So he didn't really feel immediately comfortable with the contract to receive the teachings from
great master Bhumala Mathara's immediately. Even though he invited, even though he made big effort
to invite him to come to Bhumala Mathara in Tibet, and Bhumala Mathara came already in the Tibet
capital, but he's not meeting. So therefore, then Bhumala Mathara wrote very condensed, beautiful
instructions of how to take refuge in the Buddha Dhamma Sangha. And so this is the very known
teachings on the refuge. So there, what great master Bhumala Mathara said, cause of taking refuge
is devotion of faith. F-A-T-H. I think F-A-I-T-H. Faith. That's true. Faith. Faith for the devotion
and somebody of the like, kind of like, faith. F-E-A-R. Faith. These true are the like cause
of the refuge. Then great master Jimi Longba added, kind of activated, two more, two more. And that
is,
is that, and maybe Jimi Longba mentioned it in these ways, this way to bring the cause of devotion,
sorry, cause of devotion or cause of faith. Faith. F-A-I-T-H. Cause of faith. They
reminded the four different ways we have the cause of the faith or the devotion. First one is
contact with the spiritual friend and accompanying a companion or kind of being
premature with the spiritual friend. That second, third is, is, and reading the books about the
Buddha, Dharma, Sangha or the Buddha and about the Dharma and then have the kind of tired and bold
with samsara. So those are the four cause to develop the faith. Faith or the devotion.
First again, contacting with the spiritual friend or as teacher maybe and accompanying,
complaining as spiritual friend. Second, third, reading books on the Dharma or about the Buddha
or about the Dharma, Sangha. Paul is tired or the bold with the samsara. Paul, that this four cause
will develop the devotions or the pain. That's what really great master Jimi Longba mentioned.
So therefore, that no matter whatever it is, faith is important. Faith is important
and devotion or faith is important. And then what great master, Momamakar said, faith. F-E-E-R.
That faith is again, mass grade, mass grade, Jimi Longba mentioned three different faiths.
Faith. That means also maybe I can translate it, that faith as tired and bold, bold.
So tired, bold with the general samsara situations. And then that's the first one. Second,
tired and bold with our own self-greeting, self-important. Self-important all the time.
Kind of always thinking of this, our self. Tired and bold. And the third one. Tired and bold
by these so many conceptions, so many anxieties, so many notions. One apron that this endless
coming.
I'm now tired and bold and sick of this all the time. There's no ending. So for that reason,
those are known as fears become uncomfortable with this. Uncomfortable with this. Therefore,
then I'm going to take refuge, refuge. So that means that that's the word we develop. We develop
the devotion or the path. Then the path is so important. What the great master Pappaluruma said,
fed or the debha in it is called debha. So I'm translating it as a fed or the devotion.
Devotion. Fed is a doll of old enlightenment. That is the Pappaluruma said. And that is also
what I said that too. Droll is fed is a doll of liberations. And so this is fed is so important.
And for that reason, great master Natarjuna said in his teachings and known as the garland of the
jewel, garland of the jewel, he said. And because you are in the spiritual, because your devotion
or your fed, you are in the spiritual. You are with the spiritual. Because of your wisdom,
you rely on the true natures. Among this now, the fed and the wisdom which is important. He said,
wisdom is more important, wisdom is important. But we call the wisdom fed is important.
To have the wisdom, you have to have fed first. So therefore, Natarjuna said, at the very beginning
,
fed or the devotion is so important, even igniting our wisdom, even though wisdom is so important.
So for those, I mean, this is what those great master said. But it is not just only what the
master said. Fed is so important. Devotion is so important. We talk later too in the teaching,
mentioned in the European Union, we teach in talking that song in here. Clearly that,
but we talk that. So this devotion is, if we say devotion or the fed, how many there that?
Devotion is in the Buddha teaching, kind of like intensified in these three ways.
Interested devotion or the fed. Interested, maybe I just won't use fed. F-A-T-F, fed.
So interested fed. Desiring fed. Trusty fed. So those are three pets. But the great master
in Yiminglongba again added another one. I mean, this is not just Yiminglongba adding,
but he's intensified as a coded teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni. Inperioral fed,
tortoise, imperium or unshakable fed. So, interesting fed, desirable fed and trusty fed
and unshakable fed. Those are known as the fed. Interested fed is when you read the books
or when you contract with a spiritual friend, when you're a confident spiritual
or company or kind of going with them or alone associated with spiritual friends. Or when you
are kind of let's say there's so many chaos things, difficulty in some society in the world, one up
another, all that you kind of start that be interested more, some other meaning of the lives
in the spiritual or kind of some deeper meaning of these lives. That is known as
interest fed. That is the beginning of the dome of life, according to the Buddha said. That is.
Because then, now you like to explore more about that, like to know, read more or like to kind of
contract with a more spiritual friend or contract with a company more spiritual friend,
encouraging, kind of put that and going more kind of understand, understand. And then you really
now
become more, you feel more desired. Oh, I like to be, I like to be part of this. I like to explore,
and I like to know more that. So then you really kind of like, read more deeper. So that is known
as desirable fed. Because of that, then you explore more and more. Now you see more kind of
important value and benefit of all that things, that more and more it makes sense, then it becomes
the trust. So that's what the Dhindjal Muni said, trust. That is very, very important.
That is really trust. Now you trust, that is really true. Like that. And I'm trusting,
I like trusting, I like to explore, I've explored meaning of that, call it this, it's true. I now
trust this. And with that, then the last one is unshakable or unpayable. Trust or pay. Trusting
that now become so strong. So develop, no matter what your situation of circumstance that happened,
you never like to separate it. Never like to give up that. You like to explore and stay with this.
That is then strongest fed or the devotions that individualists can develop. And with that,
we have that, then the realization is on the way. Development is on the way. And there is
so many beautiful stories of the trusty or unshakable devotions. So many stories that you can
read in the books, really. So many of those masters or the great beings are so unshakable
to the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, to their practice and principle kept no matter whatever externally
things happen in samsara, khandra, like this and that things happening. But they kept so strong in
heart and mind and they developed, they maintained their practice in the meditation and get the
realization and to perform what they want and go on that. So that is what is really known as
unshakable devotions. So the cause of ruffled is devotions. And the cause of the devotion or the
pain is that as great master Gimli Lama measured those cause. They are the cause of the condition
to aspire devotions, then develop the devotion or the pain. And of course, the pain and the
devotion
both are the English language, but I thought pain is kind of like just trust and confidence,
confidence. And then devotion is now, you recognize, you see the quality and the beauty and
importance. And I will not just only trust, but you are enjoying, you are appreciating, you feel
in a soul connected with calm and peaceful. So this kind of more intensified or more another level,
deeper level of the mental status combined with the quality of the joy and appreciation and kind of
calm and peaceful and feel the preciousness of that. And that is I think devotion and debate
also has two words, debah and mughu. So debah is like pain and mughu is like devotion. And the
devotion is so important in the teaching set. Once you have pain and then devotion, when it comes,
that richness feeling, warmth feeling, that calm and peaceful feeling, and that really then
activated so beautifully, so faster, all the performance. And that is my brief talk today,
and thank you very much everyone again for participating and coming, and thank you everyone.
[Hindi]